# Design Diary

The game started as was described in the Design Rationale document. It was a the Big Die as a board, a set of skill cards, a set of event cards, and a set of fights. My game was rather complete from the start, and most of the changes went into balance, and making the game simpler. Initially there were a bunch more stats including defense and speed. After playtests, it became clear that the game was so complicated to a point that playtesters forgot to implement certain rules into the game, such as reducing incoming damage by their defense stat, it was nearly always forgotten. Most of the other changes including changing the order of combat and how initiative was decided, increasing the difficulty of the game drastically, and on multiple occasions, and a few other minor tweaks to overall rules, including adding modifiers to certain enemy/player skills to account for balancing. I also added several features such as drawings of relative positions, pictures of the arenas in combat, and more in order to reduce friction players had with the game. Much of the time I would add a skill or new event card, very roughly guessing on values on the card that would pertain to balance later. Most often I was horribly wrong when it came to balance, which not only enlightened my perception, or lack thereof, on the state of the game, but which also gave me insight into the utmost importance that playtesting holds. Each playtest taught me valuable lessons about my game. Over time, I also added to the complexity of arenas, which made the game much more enjoyable to role play in for myself and for playtesters. I got much more feedback about how enjoyable the game was as development progressed.