# Age of Total War Final Exam

## Essay 1

### Prompt

What short- and long-term factors contributed to the Nazi rise to power? How did the Nazis rule once they were in power and what were their ultimate objectives?

### Response

The Nazi rise to power in the decade before World War II (WWII) was swift and unyielding. With Hitler's rise to power comes the obvious question of the primary causes, and his goals as the leader of the Nazi Party. The tipping point that would lead to Hitler's wrestle of control would be in 1930 when the Nazi party would gain a large standing in the Weimar Republic, thus the main short term factor for this rise to power was certainly a failure of the Weimar Republic to maintain a respectable and fair democracy in Germany. On the other hand, one of the main political arguments in support of the Nazi Party were that Germany's economic position after WWI was in dire need of change, exascerbated so by the Great Depression, fueling public support for the Nazi party, enabling its climb. While in power, the Nazi party, through its campaigns of mass murder, extermination, and unwavering reach for military dominance, sought the ethnic cleansing of Germany and its expanding borders.

At the end of World War I, the Treaty of Paris set its sights upon Germany. Losing the war and being an enemy of so many nations, Germany was put under the status of global pariah. And, by the treaty it was determined that Germany would have to pay an exorbatant fine as recompense. This fine would topple Germany's economic standing. On top of this, Germany's goverment would be replaced with the Weimar Republic. It would turn out that this installed government would be weak (especially according to the narrative the Nazis would push), failing to implement plans to rectify the sorry state of Germany after the war and help the German populace. It is well known the state of the German currency during this time, often being used as fuel for fires as inflation had increased so much with Germany printing the money needed to pay the fine imposed by the League of Nations. Although this fractured state would be somewhat repaired by the time the Nazis came around, it would fall short, as the Nazi Party and Hitler would use this weakness to rise in the ranks of the German government, (1930 being a pivotal year in particular) and Hitler being crowned chancellor, then Fuhrer when Hindenburg died. This crack in the strength of the German government would be the most important short-term factor that would lead to the rise of the Nazi Party.

Continuing from this line of reasoning, the economic state of Germany after WWI as discussed above would be vital to the public's opinion of the Nazi Party, and would serve to fuel the political standing and eventual propaganda machine the Nazi party would output. The Great Depression unfortunately came at a perfect time for the Nazi Party, pushing their agenda of economic reform and proving that the Weimar Republic was weak. Before the push for antisemitism in Nazi Germany came their replacement of the economic system. Despite their heavy anti-communist stance, Germany would implement a fascist-socialism, making government controlled corporations a major factor in the economic standing of the nation-state. This goes to show the lengths to which the Nazi Party emphasized economic improvement in their push for control.

Finally, the objectives of the Nazi Party were clear. Although not apparent to all during the war, but certainly after, the Nazi Party's policy of genocide, extermination, and ethnic cleansing, not only in Germany but in its expanded borders during the war (like in Poland and the rest of the bloodlands) served to ethnically cleanse Germany to form one German-Aryan people. One of the major events that would start the trend of genocide, especially on an antisemitic front, would be Kristallnacht. This night when one Polish-Jewish man would assassinate a German diplomat would cause an explosion of violence against Jews. A night of destruction, the Nazis would riot, destroying synagogues and other religious sites, killing and injuring many Jews in the process. Jews in the area would then be fined the damage caused by the Nazis. This would occur before the war in 1938, and - in contrast - the scale of the Holocaust towards the end of the war in 1944 and 1945 would be unmatched.

## Essay 2

### Prompt

In what ways did the Allies treat the end of World War II differently than the end of World War I? What pitfalls did they seek to avoid and what goals did they wish to achieve once the Nazis surrendered?

### Response

With the climax of total warfare being reached with the dropping of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, as well as the descent upon Berlin and Hitler's suicide, the Allies had an important question to answer: How would the nations of the world come to learn from the mistakes of the end of World War I and prevent the massive assault on human rights going into the future. The result they came up with was twofold: to reign in the global acceptance of certain types of warfare, placing a heavier emphasis on human rights in the process, and to form large-scale alliances dedicated to the pursuit of justice across the globe.

Off the bat, the Nuremburg trials would commence. With the atrocities committed by the Germans during the war plain to see for everyone, justice had to be served. Although some were acquitted of the charges held against them, many high-ranking Germans in government would meet their punishment. Furthermore, the Geneva Conventions would reign in the scale of destruction and power of governments during warfare. The world-over would decide that the threat of nuclear weaponry was to great, and that tactics like chemical and bio-warfare were too brutal and violent even for war. There would be the Declaration of Human Rights created which would further push for global acceptance of the basic freedoms of people. Decolonization would take place, allowing for self-determination in several areas of the world as well. Overall, immediately after the war, the rights of people were placed on a tall pedestal. Practices like Ethnic Cleansing, Germany's concentration camps, and others would no longer be tolerated.

With new superpowers in place and the global fear of an even more violent war breaking out soon after, many nations decided to form alliances for the defense of different ways of life. In particular there was the UN, NATO, and the Warsaw Pact. The UN in particular would serve to be a more refined, polished version of the League of Nations, free of the problems that plagued the League. Whether the goals of the UN were/are being achieved or not is up to argument, however it is hard to argue that the UN has done a superior job than the League of Nations ever did. With the Cold War soon coming into effect after the war, two more main alliances would be formed. Serving the first and second 'worlds' respectively would be NATO and the Warsaw Pact. NATO would serve as the defense of the western, democratic world with the US at its head. In contrast the Warsaw Pact would consolidate many nations under Soviet and Communist control. These alliances go to show the efforts to which the Allies would avoid another World War of such proportions and the efforts to which they would help defend those being oppressed by totalitarian regimes like Germany and even the Soviet Union.

## Essay 3

### Prompt

Do you see World War II as the end of the “age of total war” or did it continue afterwards? What do you see as the most important continuities and/or changes after World War II and why?

### Response

Although WWII was the most impactful war of the 20th and 21st centuries, war continues on. The U.S.' involement in the Korean War, Vietnam, Afghanistan and others serve to show this, as well as more recent wars like that of Yugoslavia and the Balkans in the 1990s and even most recently with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. No, the age of total war is not over, and though no 'world wars' sit in the recent memory of the newest generations, 'total war' continues on, though to a lesser degree.

Although the latter half of the 20th century would be defined by the Cold War, proxy wars still took place. The Korean and Vietnam wars in particular display the utmost dedication to war from the world's superpowers. Conscription, arguably inhumane tactics such as the use of napalm, and the indiscriminate bombing of regions in the Vietnam war are clear tells of total war. Ho Chi Minh's push for communism throughout all of Vietnam signals this as well. The direct results of the Truman Doctrine prove that the age of total war continued well after WWII. 

Unfortunately, the push for total war by various powers and political leaders in recent years bring back reminders of the World Wars and other instances of total war. The arguably fascist regime of Milosevic in Serbia during the 1990s was bloody. The modernity of the conflict allowed for heavy amounts of records of the events that would take place and show the brutality of the war in question. Most recently however, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and Ukraine's fight to retain the nation shows total war in all its difficult reality. The existence of the internet as well has spread far and wide evidence of the atrocities and scale of conflict taking place - reminding us that the age of total war is not over, and may never be over, as long as world powers can act as they please.