# Agent Decker: An Exercise in Futility | A Review

## Introduction

Agent Decker is a single-player printable card game and can run between 3-35 minutes. Needed for the game are the 54 printable cards, a 2-page instruction manual, and two small tokens of any kind, may they be coins, cubes, etc. Of the cards are various different types: An alarm card, 8 initial cards, several mission cards, sets of lettered (letters in small font on the bottom right) mission obstacle cards, and several starting obstacle cards. The instruction manual is very dense and strangely ordered, so the accompanying tutorial video should be watched as well as thorough reading(s) of the instruction manual (You may need to make a couple of inferences about the rules as well, as not everything is explicitly laid out). 

To play the game, you must place the alarm card with tokens adding up to 0. This will increase in play. If it gets greater than or equal to 50, the game is over. You'll have a set of mission cards, which should be accomplished in order. On completion, you will acquire the card permanently, augmenting the rules of the game or giving you resources. Then, after completing a mission your alarm resets and you add the next lettered set of mission obstacle cards to the current set of obstacle cards in play and reset them. Your hand, discard, and draw pile should also be reshuffled into your new draw pile. There are several 'areas' of play for each turn. There is your hand, the Play Area, and the Line. To set up the line, draw 6 obstacle cards from the obstacle card draw pile and place them in a row, somewhat like a conveyor belt. If the card says to do something when drawn or on every line scroll, do it. After every turn, the last card in the line goes into a discard pile, and your alarm is raised. Each turn you can interact with a certain number of cards in the line using the cards in your hand, which will increase as the game progresses. If you run out of cards in the obstacle draw pile and can't fill the line, it is game over.

Agent Decker is themed as a spy-infiltration game. As you 'walk' through a secret facility, you come across various obstacles that you can use to your advantage or knock out. You accomplish missions along the way and increase your abilities.

## Review

On first play, Agent Decker is very confusing. The instruction manual is strangely laid out, referring to different ideas and concepts presented all over the place. Occasionally the wording is vague and you have to figure out what they mean for yourself. The accompanying video answers some of the questions you may have, but not all of them, so play might be slightly different for every player. Thankfully the game is single-player, so this doesn't matter all too much.

Once you've grasped the rules, it's time to put them into practice, and practice you will need indeed. Agent Decker is a somewhat complex game with maybe a few hairs' too much card shuffling and organization.

Besides this however, and once you get into the rhythm of things, the game is a good bit of fun. You'll be deciding when to knock a guard out, steal a gun, deactivate a security camera, and put a poor guard puppy down. You'll be inching ever nearer to the mission at hand as your alarm gets alarmingly high and your stack of obstacles gets alarmingly low. It is a game of feedback loops and their being broken, of stress, and of tense moments where you might lose or live on on every turn. It is also a difficult game, however, and it is a game with a strange difficulty curve for each play.

First, for praise: Agent Decker can make you feel the highs of power as you draw a full hand of hide cards, and it will make you feel stressed when you draw a poor hand and the set of obstacles before you looks insurmountable. Playing your cards in the right order matters, and the choices you make on how to overcome the odds against you are meaningful and extremely impactful.

Agent Decker has one clear and obvious flaw, however, and it makes the game unplayable half of the time, and that is the first two missions and their balance. Probably half of the time you play Agent Decker it will be trying to overcome the absurd difficulty of the first two sections of gameplay. There simply isn't enough cards in the obstacle deck to start out for you to get enough points to accomplish the mission, and the cost of the cards in this starting deck is too high. On so many occasions I will draw my first 1, 2, 3, 4 hands, and none of them will let me interact with a single card on the line, and my fate is left up to chance. Whether you complete the first mission or not is a question of luck, not skill, as when you do have a choice to interact with the line, it is the only choice the majority of the time. Once you overcome the first hurdle, however, the second hurdle will surely knock you off your feet. As most of the cards you have obtained at this point have been hide cards, and you must now build your deck for fight cards, you have already severely diminished the size of the deck, and the added mission obstacle deck you add is only *3 cards*. Further, there is no way to return cards from your hand, discard, or draw pile, back to the obstacle cards deck. This makes it so that the half of the time you do complete the first mission, only a third of the time you will get past the second without running out of obstacle cards to draw for the line and you lose. There are more cards, and more impactful cards later in the game, and several limitations, like the number of cards you can interact with per turn, are slowly lifted as the game goes on. As you get further in the game, the difficulty seems to drop immensely, as you start to form a positive feedback loop of power for each mission you engage with. It is so unfortunate that the majority of players will likely hit a difficulty wall after the first mission (assuming they overcame the difficulty wall of learning the game in the first place), and quit.

# Agent Decker: Analysis

## In what way is the game strategic?

Strategy entails an overall plan and approach to a game. Agent Decker is a very strategic game, although it might not seem so for the first few games. You might see the few choices you have and simply choose the ones that are available to you or maybe the ones that push you towards the goal. After losing several times by running out of obstacle cards, however, you will soon learn that you need to change your approach. If you disarm all the cards you can to build your hand, you will soon run out of cards. If you only disarm cards that push you towards your goal, then after the first mission, your hand will be lacking and you will be at a disadvantage. The game has a lot of macro, or meta, play. You must choose when to use your cards to prevent a later high alarm card from ending your game, and you must consistently work towards your mission goal. Sometimes your mission will require you to plan ahead to get a certain high-cost card, and you must strategize around this fact. You must make sure that you don't get too many cards that work towards your mission, otherwise the deck will be too small for the next mission.

All of these are meta-analyses of the ways to play the game, but you can also take different approaches on each playthrough, and turn-by-turn revelations may change your strategy. Coming across a high-power card may push you to use a bin card to remove other, less useful cards in order to make a sort of 'build'. Eventually, with enough play, you may remember the cost and actions of important cards (especially later mission obstacle cards) and plan around this. Even on an inter-turn basis, one turn may affect how you play for the next few turns. A card being shown on the line may push you to get it and build around it (with enough luck of course). You might find a powerful combination of cards in one playthrough, so you will seek to acquire those cards in tandem again in another playthrough. 

All of these factors culminate in a player plan, a strategy. It may be composed of several different elements, or around one clear rule set on what, how, and when to play different elements in the game. This leads to interesting, thought provoking play while, before, and after each game is said and done.


## In what way is the game tactical?

Moreso even than strategy, Agent Decker is a game about tactics. It is about turn-by-turn decisions and moment to moment thoughts and actions (Strategy may even inform your tactics). Each turn (most of the time) you are presented with (usually) two  options at a minimum, whether to disarm or knockout a card. This is dependent on whether the card is a hide or attack card, its alarm level, how valuable you think it is as a card you may play, etc. Beyond that, you may choose on each turn to bolster your hand, try to complete the mission, grab a high-power card for later, or use one of your equipment cards to save your future self from loss. Sometimes, the order you play your cards may even matter, especially towards the end of the game when you have many cards with optional abilities you may use, and when you may interact with multiple obstacles on the line.

Often times, your tactics are reactionary. As the line moves and new foes come into play, move around, and mess up your plans, you must decide your multi-turn plan to overcome the obstacles before you. You may see a tower card that increases the cost of a card you planned on disarming, you may have bet on a certain alarm level at a certain time, but suddenly a guard dog has messed up your plans, or you bet on a certain amount of attack or hide points and you simply got dealt a different hand. All of these elements really go to push the player into situations they did not expect and to force them to play a way they did not prepare for. Players must often play the way they intended in spite of the game, or change their tactics outright.

So often while playing Agent Decker, players will run into situations in which they must outsmart the game by playing in a cunning, unique, and clever way. As the game progresses, a player's set of tools becomes more defined and stylized to suit a certain path of play. Just how in an RPG a player will build their character with certain items and stats to bolster one powerful aspect of their character, or a player will pick and choose cards to suit a combo in Slay the Spire, so too will players acquire a set of cards in Agent Decker that lets them come up with unique, surprising tactics on every turn.


## What kinds of hidden information is there in this game and why is it there?

Agent Decker has a few different types of hidden information. The first is the order of the obstacles card deck, the second is the order of your draw pile, and the third (although not a factor in most of play) is the order/size of your discard pile (although truly hidden it is effectively hidden as most players will not pay attention to what is in their discard pile). The order of the obstacles deck is arguably the most impactful hidden information in the game. This determines: how much alarm the next cards will give you, any line-altering effects on each card, the overall cost of the line on subsequent turns, etc. As for the draw pile, this hidden information makes the resources you will acquire on the next turn effectively random. The goal of the game, in some regard, is reducing this randomness and hidden information in order to build a deck that is consistently effective at getting you to your goals and completing missions. The last example rarely comes into play, however it is important for some cards. During play, most players will likely not care to remember what cards, and how many they have put into their discard pile, so the information is effectively hidden, to an extent. This becomes important when the player acquires cards that have power depending on the size of the discard pile, or that let players find a card in their discard pile to put into their hand.

The reason hidden information is in this game is that hidden information pushes for reactive play and enforces randomness. If players knew every card that would come up on the line, knowing everything about those cards, then players could come up with a systematic plan ahead of time that would be guaranteed to make them win, or they may come across a situation in which winning is completely impossible and would be disappointed. The reason there is hidden information, ultimately, is that it forces players to expect the unexpected, as each game is different. It allows for a distinction between tactics and strategy, and simulates a player vs. game mentality where the game could throw anything at the player, within reason.

Hidden information and randomness are ultimately linked as well. With information hidden from the player, players can assume outcomes will be effectively random and must prepare as such. Hidden information and randomness are inseparable, being the aspects of unexpectedness and surprise, which is very surprising to see.