# Launching a game into a purchasable pre-release state can lead to poor design and technical performance for players

Many games (and this was more of an issue during the early days of things like Steam Green-Light) release into 'Early Access' or Beta, or some other pre-release version, but players may buy the game at full price with the promise of consistent development and and eventually-quality product. This is a special deal between players and developers where players agree to fund the game during development (which is often very difficult to do as an indie without a publisher or with a small one). In return, developers promise a more quality product. This often goes very well, but often goes very poorly, or has mixed reception. The example I'd like to give is Escape From Tarkov. Tarkov is a game in 'Beta Limbo'. It has been in Beta for years, but players treat it like a fully released game. Battlestate Games, the developer, also treats it like a fully released game, with different purchase packs that give you different levels of content in the game and special perks for higher paying customers. However, the game is unfinished. Just recently, with the 0.13 update which added a host of new guns, a new map (one of the largest in the game), and other features. One big issue with this update, however, was the change of the binaural audio system. For the longest time, Tarkov has had a decent 3D audio system. You could usually tell pretty well where a sound was coming from. The game was designed around this, in fact. So many different actions will make noise and alert other players to your location, which may end in your death and you could lose all of your gear and a bunch of money. There are AI enemies in the game whose primary purpose is to force you to shoot them as to not die, which alerts players. In the new update, Battlestate Games updated the binaural audio to a new system. Suffice it to say, and excuse my language, but it's pretty garbage. You can't tell where any sounds are coming from, and people have done experiments to show that the traditional stereo audio and the new binaural audio have no discernible difference. This has lead to a distrust within the Tarkov community, and has made the game unplayable for many who spent even over $100 dollars to play the game. As these pre-release games go through their development cycles, they have to cater to the needs of players as well as the needs of the game, and this is a careful balance. Small changes which may be fixed later in a traditional game development environment have to be fixed immediately, and certain changes could have drastic impacts on your reputation with consumers.