# Extinction

Likely the most well supported, believed, and documented theory on why the dinosaurs went extinct, along with a large portion of other species on the planet 65-66 million years ago is the asteroid theory.
The *Alvarez Hypothesis* posits that a large asteroid hit the now Yucatan peninsula of Mexico specifically at the Chicxulub impact crater, which caused an initial blast and series of events that would kill most of the dinosaurs and much of the other life on Earth. The biggest piece of evidence pointing to this claim is of course the impact crater itself. The Chicxulub impact crater is so large that its global impact is nearly indisputable. In addition, in the Earth's crust in the region sits a very high amount of iridium. A third piece of evidence is the existence of fossil sites found around the crater that indicate a mass amount of death of fauna that existed during the time. The agreed upon *death of the dinosaurs* is around 65-66 million years ago. A fourth point to further this hypothesis is that the rock deposited in the Chicxulub Crater is dated to 66 million years ago, lining up with the death of the dinosaurs. One last piece of evidence is that a large portion of the fossils found died from shrapnel impact from the impact, and the massive force and atmospheric change that must have occurred in the region.
The impact must have created such a quantity of debris as to block out the sun for a long time, as is unavoidable with an asteroid of the mass positted. This change likely killed much of the flora of the then-separating continents. Without the primary producers the ecosystems present across the globe likely fell into ruin, leading to the mass extinction of 66 million years ago.
The main agreed upon point across all dinosaur extinction theories is that the climate rapidly changed, likely leading to the death of so much life. One other primary theory is the volcanism theory, stating that evidence of increased volcanic activity as a result of separating plates may have caused such a supervolcanic eruption as to temporarily change the climate of the entire planet. Although this hypothesis is compelling, there is no conclusive evidence to say what part of the world caused the eruption unlike the Alvarez hypothesis.
One other theory commonly talked about is that the natural separation of the tectonic plates rapidly changed the climate and caused to much speciation. Species could not keep up with the changing times and died off in mass amounts. This theory has maybe the least amount of evidence supporting it and can be somewhat written off.