In what ways did Paris Peace Treaties, especially the Treaty of Versailles, and the Russian Revolution set up new diplomatic and political tensions for the interwar period? 

Buzz word count: 6
Response:

At the end of World War I, a treaty had to be made, including the help of various countries, in order to settle the conclusion of the war and put everyone at ease. Such a global collaboration had almost never been done before in world history, so some mistakes were bound to happen, and happen they did. The massive reparations placed on Germany, broken promises of the Dalmation Coast to Italy, and other issues caused various states to hold grudges against others. Lenin's Marxist experiment and the subsequent Russian Civil War, caused massive unrest, especially in Europe. These new pariahs, held in disregard by the rest of the world, pushed tensions during the interwar period up massively. 

The outcome of the Treaty of Versailles placed Germany between a rock and a hard place. The new Weimar Republic, many felt, was unstable and couldn't make important decisions. The reparations placed on the country as well (even after the Dawes Plan) sent the country into financial ruin and would lay the foundation for Hitler's eventual rise to power. This tension with the other western powers would fuel the fire of Nazism. On the other hand, the territory claimed by Italy that was never delivered, would spawn irredentism, and push Mussolini to lead the March on Rome and instate fascism in the country. This would of course massively increase tensions between the other European powers, primarily democratic.

The Russian Revolution and the subsequent civil war caused a massive scare among western powers. This 'Red Scare' would increase tensions, as well as the pariah's cooperation with Germany in the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. Of course, this anti-communist sentiment would increase much more rapidly post-WWII, however it was still extremely pronounced during the inter-war period. The biggest reaction to the development of communism in Europe would come from Fascism, marked as a sort of anti-ideology to Marxism. This would lead to the horrors of World War II: eugenics, genocide, mass propaganda, etc. driving tensions between the countries of Germany, Italy, and arguably even Japan, and the rest of the world.