# Minstrelsy Primary Source Mini-Project

1. It seems as though African Americans were portrayed in general as incompetent in minstrel shows. They generally have bad grammar and exaggerated accents and dialects. Their skin is portrayed as extremely black and the often get into antics in the shows that only someone mentally incompetent would get into. It generally is atrocious how poorly they are portrayed in these shows.
2. The first image of Bert Williams in 1911 shows an American, it shows an entrepreneur and a businessman striving for the American ideal. The second photo, the portrait, shows an exaggerated Bert Williams in blackface and minstrel attire. This picture shows the 'Negro' as portrayed in this time period. These two portrayals show a vast difference, one is William's comedic character, exaggerating the unfair stereotypes at the time, and the other is just a man. As Du Bois says, these two personas are in combat with one another, but show the courage Bert Williams had in the end.
3. In the excerpt from *The Negro: A Southerner's Problem* Thomas Nelson Page reveals that there is a fundamental social misunderstanding  between the North and the South. He seems to say that the North does not understand the 'stress' and 'responsibility' of seemingly having to take care of the majority of the African American population. Page's argument about the difference between 'respectable' and 'unrespectable' African American is a biased and culturally ignorant opinion. He seems to say that African American culture is lacking in white American etiquette when it is simply a different culture.