# Infographic Memo

In creating this visual, I employed a few pieces of software. The first was Krita, used for creating the percentages of job stress and satisfaction within the outlines of people. The initial mockup draft for the infographic was made in KolourPaint, and the final product was assembled in Canva. I used Thunar and Obsidian for my file organization while creating the project and Obsidian was used as well to create this memo.

In creating this infographic, I had access to enough data that I would likely not have been able to fit it all into a single infographic without clutter everywhere. Because of this, I had to pick and choose which pieces of data to show without introducing my own bias into the equation. For this, I selected the top 5 recognizable big tech companies by early career median salary, excluding any that did not have all the information accounted for.

When assembling the infographic, I chose to focus on the experience of being a big tech employee and what that person would look like, choosing the statistics that would best fit that directive. For this I chose to include early career median salary, median age, percentage of people who said they were stressed at their job, and percentage of people who said they were satisfied with their job.

When creating the infographic, I used Tufte and Williams' various principles of design. Firstly, for Tufte's principles. The whole design compares the statistics shown between various tech companies. It also compares stress vs. satisfaction. I use multivariate analysis, choosing four data points to focus on. I integrate the evidence by placing all labels and descriptions on or near the data itself rather than making viewers refer to a separate key or something similar. The infographic is fully documented with author, date of creation, source information, etc. I tried to focus on the content of the infographic most of all. As for Williams' principles. I utilize contrasting colors and contrasting ways of displaying the data, namely, the bars vs. the people. I repeat the bar element twice per company, as well as the people used for measuring stress and satisfaction. I repeat other elements as well such as the company logos. I use strong left alignment on everything but the percentages. This creates (or I explicitly put) guiding lines to draw the eye. For proximity, I put all of the related data points close together, while separating sections of data between companies. As I mentioned before, color is used to differentiate and signify each of the data points, using strongly contrasting colors. Finally I use a simple, sans-serif, thick and readable font. Further, bold text is used in places to draw the eye.
