
## The Spire

The Spire is a great tower at the end of the world. The purpose of the tower is for the chosen one of each cycle to become the next Proditor and cleanse their civilization. The 3 Proditors before the game were The Being Astral, destroying the ancient race of sorcerers, using the primal currents of the world. The next were the Mekanists, a machine race destroyed by the One Mind. And the latest cycle was comprised of a race of Torturers, waging wars and using the currents of the world to create mangled lifeforms fit for their purposes, destroyed the Proditor, the Festering Wound.

### Creation
Out of nothing, birthed Chaos. And chaos ruled indeterminate. Realms were created and fell, along with the Straya, an astral world atop the realm. No more than one realm may exist at once, and no more than two Straya may exist at once. Old Straya are merged with the Straya-Vetus, a Straya containing every Straya previous. Creatures of the realm may enter their realm's Straya, at great difficulty and are tethered to their realm. The Isktar - The beings of the Straya - however, cannot enter a realm. But by stealing the tether of Ordon - being(s) of the realm - and severing it, they may manifest in various ways, physical and otherwise. Previously, no two Straya ever interacted before they were merged, until the present Age.

Our current age begins with the ascension of a being of the old realm, Azra, who destroyed the old realm, and merged the Straya-Vetus. She created her realm, Azreim, and her Straya of souls, the Straya-Azra. Azra sought for her realm to be the last, as she had learned the history of the world by visiting the Straya-Vetus before the creation of her new reality, opening a tear that would never be fully closed. Only with Azra's power would the Yterna - the gate between the Straya-Azra and the Straya-Vetus - remain shut. 

The Spire has not existed forever, although to the inhabitants of each civilization it may as well have. Azreim was created by one God (Azra), existing before, in the Realm-Vetus (old realm). This god created a world of eternal splendor and life for the first race, the Azreins. The Azreins however, were unsatisfied with such a simple life, and so studied the structure of the world, and advanced to such a point that they discovered their God, and tried to reach it. They built The Spire not only to reach the Heavens, but to test and see who amongst them were the most worthy to reach Azra. The one to complete the task however, was hell-bent on conquering their world. Yta, her name was, sought to become the new God of the world. Using all of the invention and creation of the Azreins to her advantage, she sought to destroy her creator with that that Azra had unknowingly created. She devised cosmic weapons of untold destruction to take down her god, and she succeeded, killing Azra. With Azra's dying wish, however, she split Yta into two halves, her soul and her body. Her soul would remain the new God of the world at the top of The Spire, however her body would be banished to the deepest depths at the lowest foundation of The Spire, at the bottom of the world so that she may live in eternal torment.
Her soul, the good part of Yta, of Azra's design would remain at the top, and cleanse the world with the souls of champions who would climb the Tower like her, however those souls would live with Yta's curse, creating the Plagues as their bodies are separated from their souls. The Plagues would forever remain in the roots of the Earth and forever remind the inhabitants of Azreim of the evil the Azreins conjured to destroy God. Azra's remaining power in the world is the creation of souls who inhabit all living things and all things sentient (including the sentient Mekanists), and Yta's is to hold open the gate between the Straya-Azra and the Straya-Vetus so that she may let the beings of the Straya-Vetus finally kill those with souls, removing the eternal life from the world which had so fatigued her, however the Plague that was released by Yta to cleanse the Azreins is #WIP.

## The Proditors

### The Being Astral

The Being Astral was a member of the Querians, a race of praying-mantis-like creatures, around 3 meters tall. They were obsessed with the elements, the magics, and their manipulation. Through their magics they eventually discovered The Straya, a realm which sits atop Azreim. It holds the souls of the world, but also an ancient race of entities which sit opposed to the creations of Azra and seek to destroy them.